[Music] hey Jon from Supabase here and in this
video we're going to learn all about row level
policies now this is a concept that does trip up
a lot of people especially if they're new to sql
or even just writing authorization rules at this
layer but i promise it's not as scary as it seems
so let's learn how so most people have this mental
model of this kind of three-piece architecture
where you have a client an api and a database and
the client is only able to directly communicate
with the api and the api is the only thing that's
allowed to talk directly to the database so if the
client wants records that are in the database they
have to go to the api and they have to say this is
who i am and then the api decides do i trust you
or don't i trust you and if they do they're the
only ones that have a special key to the database
so they go up to the database get those records um
and then send them back to the client now in the
row level security architecture the client can
talk directly to the database and so there's
no actual need to have that api in the middle
the client just sends across their authorization
token or says who they are to the database
and then the database decides based on those
row-level policies should the user have access
to this data or should they not if they should
then it can send those results directly to the
client so not only can this make your queries
a little bit more efficient because you don't
need to go that extra hop through the api but you
also protect yourself from writing some bad logic
in the api that potentially exposes some data from
your database by writing the access rules for the
data in the database itself it makes it very hard
to accidentally leak out that data because only
the people who should have access to it can have
access so let's see how we might implement row
level policies in our own application here i have
a blog project that i'm building on Supabase it
has two tables so a post and a comment each post
has an id a title the content of the post user id
and so this is the user that authored the blog we
then have a created at timestamp and whether or
not the blog is published currently we then have a
comment table and again this has an id and content
it has the user that authored the comment a
timestamp and then the post that it's associated
with so this just models a fairly common
one-to-many relationship where each post has many
comments and every comment belongs to a post so
let's have a look at the application that's using
it so here i have a Supabase application i'm going
to sign up for a new account as ash pokemon.com
and he can have the super secure password
password on the right here we're going to
sign up a second user and so obviously we're
going to sign up ash's rival gary at pokemon.com
and he's going to have the same password
because i don't think they're very
security conscious over in violet town now ash
is going to create a new post so he can give this
post a title and then write about the adventure
of his first pokemon and now he's not quite ready
to publish this he thinks that maybe he can add a
little bit more to this story so he's just going
to click save and come back to it later and so ash
can now see this post he could continue editing it
if he wanted he could delete it if he decides this
story isn't worth telling the world and if he goes
back to all posts he can see his post listed there
which is what we'd expect because even though it
hasn't been published ash should still be able
to see it and be able to continue working on it
the problem is if we come over here and refresh
on gary's side gary can also see the blog even
though it hasn't been published yet and so
let's fix this up using a row level policy
so ash should be the only one that's able to
see his unpublished blog and definitely the
only one that's able to edit or delete it so
let's head back over to our Supabase dashboard
and go to authentication and then policies
and you'll see that rls or row level security
is disabled on tables by default and so let's
enable that for our post table and the first thing
we'll notice is if we go back to our application
and try and view all posts now you'll see that
even ash is not able to see his post and if we
refresh on gary's side he obviously can't see it
and that's because by default row level security
is going to entirely lock down that table so it's
going to automatically deny any request to select
insert update or delete any row in that table and
the only way to unlock those actions again is to
create a new policy so here we can create a policy
from a template or from scratch i'm going to show
what it looks like if we do it from a template
if we go down to this bottom option so enable
delete access for users based on their user id
and so this sounds similar to what we want we
want to enable all actions instead of just delete
but we definitely want it to be based on the
currently logged in user and so if we say we
want to use this template we can then change
whether we want it to be for select insert
update delete or all and so all is going
to contain all four of these actions
we can then update the name to just say
enable all actions for users based on user id
and now if we have a look at the policy that we're
actually creating here this is just a conditional
so a good way to think about this is like a
where clause in regular sql so if we wanted
to select all the columns from post where the user
id column is set to the currently logged in user
what we're specifying in the row level policy is
just this where clause so this where clause is
going to automatically be attached to any insert
select update or delete statement that we're
trying to do and so we don't need to remember
to do that ourselves at the api level if you're
not super familiar with sql syntax then this is
similar to a filter statement in javascript so if
we had a list of all of our posts and we wanted to
filter any posts where the post.userid is equal to
the currently logged in user's id then we would
get back an array from this so this would be
like filtered posts and this would only contain
posts where this condition was true and so that's
what we're doing in our policy here with this
condition we're saying we want to basically
filter out any of the results where auth.userid
which is a special function that gives us back the
currently logged in user so this is provided to us
by Supabase and we're checking whether that user
id is equal to the column in this table for user
id and so remember this is the person who authored
this post so we're saying if the currently logged
in user is equal to the post dot user id column
then this is all good this returns true and it
is all good to select it insert it update it or
delete it now because we have included update
here we also need to add a width check and so
we can just copy and paste the same condition here
so we just want to check whether the currently
logged in user is equal to the user id column and
then we can click review and if we have a look at
this there's nothing magical going on this is
just creating the sql behind the scenes for
us so we could actually just copy this entire
sql statement and come over to our sql editor
and run this manually and it would do exactly
the same thing but all we're doing is creating
a policy with the name enable all actions for
users based on their user id we're setting this
on the public.post table and we want to run this
condition so auth.uid is equal to user id anytime
we try to perform one of those actions so now we
can click save policy and so now if we go back to
our application and refresh on ash's side he will
now be able to see that post and he can click
into it to get some more information about it he
could edit the post and say i can't wait to tell
gary and then he could even say okay i'm ready
to publish this post and click save but now even
though that post is now published if we come
over to gary's side and refresh you'll see we
still can't see that post and that's because we
created a policy so that the person who authored
the blog could see it but we still haven't enabled
access for anyone else so let's create a policy
for anyone to be able to see a published post so
let's come back over to Supabase and create a new
policy and this time we're going to create
it from scratch so we can see how easy it is
for this policy we want to enable user to select
a published post and we want to set this on select
and then all we want to do here is say if is
published is equal to true then we want to
display this post so let's review and save that
policy and now when we come back to gary's side
and refresh he can now see that post which is
awesome uh but now if ash decided that he didn't
want that post published anymore he could come
over here and untick is published and then if gary
refreshes he can no longer see that post awesome
so our policy is working the way we expect it if
i come back here and edit and republish this post
a cool thing to note is that if i copy this url to
edit uh this blog post and paste it over here for
gary he's able to see this page because we haven't
implemented any logic in our application to stop
that and if he decided he wanted to be extra
malicious and come down and delete his rival's
post it looks like everything went well we didn't
get an error message but now we've been redirected
to the landing page and the post is still there so
it hasn't been deleted and that's the real power
of row level policies we completely forgot about
this edge case in our application but because we
wrote that policy at the database layer it still
wouldn't let us perform that action so no matter
how bad the code is we write at the api layer and
how much power we think we've given people to
do malicious things our data is still safe and
that's what's most important so this is looking
good let's have a look at how we might enable
comments so if we click into one of our posts and
if we come to the same post on ash's side we see
we've got this comment section and now gary might
add a comment saying nice work ash so proud of you
and now he adds that comment and we
can see it there if we refresh on
ash's side we can see that comment and
we can say wow thanks gary great guy
and again if we come over to gary's
side and refresh we can see that very
kind message from ash there so let's enable
row level security for the comments table
and again we can check that if we come back
here and refresh we can't see anything for
either user so let's write a policy to be able
to see these comments again now if we have a
think about what kinds of comments we should be
able to see it's kind of directly linked to the
posts that we can see if we can see a post it
makes sense that we can see all of its comments
and it doesn't really make sense for us to see a
comment for a post that we're not allowed to see
so let's have a look at selecting data from
another table within our policy to determine
whether we should see that comment or not let's
start off by creating a new policy on the comment
table and again we're going to create this one
from scratch we're going to be looking at select
and this policy is enabling a
user to view comments for posts
they can view so rather than just re-implementing
the same policies that we have on the post table
we can use a little trick here to say well for
this comment that i'm currently trying to select
i know which post it belongs to and so if i
go and write a select statement for that post
if i'm able to see it then it means that i
should be able to see this comment as well
so we can do that by saying select star from post
where post dot id is equal to the current comments
dot post id so this is going to take the comment
we're currently trying to select it's going to
look at which post it belongs to and then it's
going to go and look up a post with that post id
from the post table and then if it's able to
select that post it's going to return us all
of the columns and so we don't actually care
about the columns we don't actually care about
the data that's in there we just care whether
we can select it or not so we can replace this
with a 1 and then that's just going to return
us true rather than returning us the values
of the columns so if we can select this post
we're just going to get back the value true
and that means we can wrap this select statement
in another statement to see whether it exists
so now if this select statement returns true
then this policy will return true and we will
be able to select that comment and so now if we go
back to our application and refresh on ash's side
we should see those two comments and if we refresh
on gary's side we should see those two comments
and so now as gary if i try to say thanks ash
and add a new comment we're going to get an
error that this violates a row level security
policy and so that's because we haven't added
a rule for insert yet so let's go and do that
and so let's create a new policy and again we
can create it from scratch this is going to be
insert so allow users to insert comments on posts
they can see and this policy is going to be
very similar to our select policy so we only
want to be able to insert comments
for posts that we're allowed to see
but if we have a think about this this is actually
going to allow us to insert a comment with someone
else's user id attached to it and so we probably
want to protect that so only a user can only
insert a comment for themselves so let's chain
on an and here so we can specify a second clause
and let's say we want the auth dot user id to
equal the comment dot user id and so let's review
and save that policy and now gary should be able
to leave that very important comment thanking ash
and if we refresh on ash's side we can now
see that comment so let's add policies for
our remaining two actions so we want to be able to
update and delete and these policies are going to
be exactly the same as our insert so for update
we want to be able to update comment that we can
view post for and that we own and then we're
going to paste that exact same condition both
in using and with check and we're going to click
review and save policy and the same for delete
awesome so if we go back to our application we can
see that gary can delete uh comments that he made
on ash's post but he can't delete ash's comment
so if we try deleting this thanks ash comment
and then we go and refresh on ash's side we'll see
that that's gone so that's good but one thing that
we would want to be able to do is the person who
owns the post should probably be able to moderate
the comments that are on it and so ash should be
able to delete gary's comments but gary should not
be able to delete ash's comments so if we have
a look here our application is assuming that so
if i come down and try to delete gary's comment
you'll see that it looks like it's gone but again
if i refresh it's back again and that's because
our row level security is not letting us perform
that action that we haven't written a policy for
and so let's write that now new policy create from
scratch and this one is for delete and we can
say user can moderate comments on their posts
and so for this one we're also going to want
to look up the associated post so we can say
select star from post where post dot id is equal
to comment dot post id and so similarly to the
previous example we want to look up the post id
for that comment in the post table but this time
we do actually care about the data that comes
back because we want to only allow this action
for people who own the post so in this case
we could actually select the user id column
and then we could wrap this in a statement that
checks whether auth.uid is in this subquery
so if the user who's currently logged
in is the user who created the post
for the comment that we're currently trying
to delete then we should be able to delete it
and if we go back to our application and again try
and delete that comment from gary and refresh it's
still deleted and if we go and refresh on gary's
side he may be a little bit annoyed but that
comment is also gone from there so we now have
a blog that works the way that we would expect
we can create a new post and if it's not published
no one else will be able to see it and when we
publish a post our other users will be able to
read it and we can add comments to that post
we can view comments that other people
have made on the post that we can see
we can moderate those comments and even delete
the post that we own and then our other users
will no longer be able to see it awesome and
that's how easy it is to implement row level
policies in postgres using Supabase we'll have a
link to the auth documentation in the description
below in case you want to dig a little bit
deeper make sure you check out our youtube
channel for more awesome videos just like this
one give us a follow on twitter and also check
out our new discord there are some very cool
folks over there and come tell us what you're
building with superbass we would absolutely
love to hear about it thanks for watching
[Music]